# oc4automatedinstaller
Lets test drive how cool is the Openshift 4 automated installer works.

##Openshift4 1 2 3 start guide

# Installation process 
To start the installation process OpenShift installer temporary bootstrap machine booted with a concrete Ignition configuration, which describes how to create the cluster.  The machine acts as a temporary control plane whose job is to launch the production control plane.
The main assets generated by the installer are the Ignition configs for the bootstrap, control plane, and compute machines.  Given these configuration files (and properly configured infrastructure), it is possible to start an OpenShift cluster.
The bootstrapping process for the cluster looks like the following:

1. The bootstrap machine boots and starts hosting the remote resources required for control plane machines to boot.
2. The control plane machines fetch the remote resources from the bootstrap machine and finish booting.
3. The control plane machines form an etcd cluster.
4. The bootstrap machine starts a temporary Kubernetes control plane using the newly-created etcd cluster.
5. The temporary control plane schedules the production control plane to the control plane machines.
6. The temporary control plane shuts down, yielding to the production control plane.
7. The bootstrap node injects OpenShift-specific components into the newly formed control plane.
8. The installer then tears down the bootstrap resources.

The result of this bootstrapping process is a fully running OpenShift cluster.  The cluster will then download and configure the remaining components needed for day-to-day operation via the cluster version operator including the automated creation of compute machines on supported platforms.




# Installation steps:
1. Login to https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift/install and download ocp4 installer. You can access the following direct download link https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/ocp/latest/

2. Setup your AWS account with the openshift cluster domain name under router 53 service and copy your AWS access key.

3. Have your installation secretes and execute the following command on your terminal  
  
./openshift-install create cluster
  >>Choose your ssh key
  >>Choose your installation type for now it's only aws
  >>Specify your cluster name
  >>Specify your domain name, configured as router 53 service in aws
  >>Enter your installation secrets  and hold your breath for an automated installation


Congratulations your Openshift4 cluster is up and running in AWS. 

You can access your console as per the installer process log output on your screen. Connection details for your cluster is also available in the .openshift_install.log file after the installation completed.

Should you have any trouble in access the cluster using CLI please check your kubeconfig file path and export the KUBECONFIG variable correctly for example below KUBECONFIG=/your_working_directory/auth/kubeconfig


##Cleanup
Destroy the cluster and release associated resources with:
 openshift-install destroy cluster
